# Corporate-Tax-Cuts-for-Small-Businesses-in-Quebec

Small businesses are an important part of an economy. In Canada, small businesses make up 98.1 percent of all businesses, which plays a crucial role in the economy’s investment, job creation, and productivity growth (Cui et al., 2021). However, due to a lack of adequate access to financing, small businesses are also more likely to experience financial constraints, which hinder the growth of the economy (Beck et al., 2008). Keeping everything else constant, a lower corporate tax rate can lift financial constraints, which gives small business owners more room to expand their businesses and may lead to better outcomes in one or more of employment, wages, investment and total revenue. Therefore, understanding how small businesses react to tax policies and how the economy is affected by tax policies is essential to stimulate economic growth and boost employment.

This paper examines the impact of corporate tax cuts on employment, wages, investment and total output at the sector level. The authors take the corporate tax cut that happened in Quebec, Canada in 2014 as a natural experiment. The policy reduced the corporate tax rate from 8% to 4% for small businesses in the manufacturing sector (Duan and Moon, 2022). The data on employment, wages, investment and output used In this paper is from publicly available databases on Statistic Canada, and we examine the period from 2011 to 2017 since there have been no other crucial policy changes in this period.

We use the triple difference as the empirical strategy to examine the policy’s influences on employment, wages, investment and output for all gender and workers, controlling for sector and province. To be more specific, we examine the variation after the policy reform in employment, wages, investment and output for manufacturing and procession sectors, in Quebec and Ontario. The results show that after the policy implementation, employment in the manufacturing sector increased. The total wage and hourly wage also increased. For investment, the investment in total non-residential capital and machinery equipment increased, but investment in property products decreased. Moreover, the total output of manufacturing decreased after the policy was promulgated.

In conclusion, the corporate tax cut policy leads to positive influences on wages and employment in the manufacturing sector in Canada. The policy also stimulated investment in total nonresidential capital and machinery equipment but discouraged investment in intellectual property products. The reform also discouraged the total output of the manufacturing sector in Quebec. The results show the effectiveness of the tax cut policy on promoting employment, increasing wages, and stimulating investment. Therefore, governments in other provinces may consider decreasing corporate income taxes to small businesses as a way to stimulate the economy.
